>CAPA<
CAPA is a malware analisys tool.
It conducts static analisys -> examining malware without executing it.

Helpful commands:
-h Help
-v -vv Verbose

To read an output of Capa analisys we use the powershell command: Get-Content <filename>

>Dissecting CAPA Results<

First block
MD5 Sha1 Sha256 - Cryptographic Algorithms
Analysis - Type of analysis performed (static in this case)
OS - Reveals the OS that the identified capabilities apply
Arch - Reveals if we are dealing with x86 binary file
Path - where the analysed file is located

Second Block
ATT&CK tatic - what is present and identified
ATT&CK Technique + sub technic identifier - Inside Each tatics what techniques where used in the file + txxxx identifier

This second block uses the MITRE ATT&CK Framework

Third Block
MAEC - Malware Attribute Enumeration and Characterization

Standardised language used to describe malware.

The most common values are Launcher (Triggers specific actions) and Downloader (Downloads and executes other files)

Some of launcher behaviours can be:

    Dropping additional payloads
    Activating persistence mechanisms
    Connecting to command-and-control (C2) servers
    Executing specific functions

Some Downloader behaviours can be:

    Fetching additional payloads or resources from the internet
    pulling in updates
    executing secondary stages
    retrieving configuration files

Forth Block
Malware Behaviour Catalogue (MBC)
Serves as a catalog to give us an idea of the malware objectives and behaviours.

Usual format is: OBJECTIVE::Behavior::Method[Identifier]

Objective- outlines the malware Objective
Micro-Objectives - Objectives the malware has that are not necessarily malicious but can be abused later. (Memory, Process)

Behaviours- Explain what the malware does to achieve the objective.
Micro-Behaviour - These are what the tasks the malware does to achieve Micro-Objectives that are not necessarily harmfull but will help the malware later somehow (Allocating memory, checking strings, decoding, terminating process.)


Methods - They are tied to behaviours, basicly they outline how that specific behaviour is executed. (behaviour: Encode data method: XOR)

Fifth Block

Format: Capability(Rule Name)::TLN(Top-Level Namespace)/Namespace


Capability - States the capabilities of the malware (Its also the name of the rule inside the namespace)
Namespace - Groups Items with the name purpose in Top Level namespaces and then Namespaces


>Verbose<

To know what trigged a rule inside the malware we can increase the verbose with the command -v or -vv.

If we do -vv we may get more than 3000 lines of code. Using a command line to read this is not pratical

We can convert a file to JSON so we can read it in a more simple way
To do this we do capa.bin -j -vv .\FILENAME.bin > FILENAME_vv.json

Next we need to upload the JSON file to CAPA web Explorer at https://mandiant.github.io/capa/explorer/#/ or the offline version

On the website we can click on the category and check what was found in the malware that the rule.yml had present.
