>FlareVM Forensics, Logic Analysis, and Reverse Engineering<

Collection of tools used by reverse engineers, malware analysts, incident responders, forensic investigators, and penetration testers


>Tools<

Reverse Engineering & Debugging

Reverse engineering -> Solving puzzles backwards, We take a finished product and try to understand it
Debbugging - Identifying errors and why they happen so we can correct the code.

    Ghidra - NSA-developed open-source reverse engineering suite.
    x64dbg - Open-source debugger for binaries in x64 and x32 formats.
    OllyDbg - Debugger for reverse engineering at the assembly level.
    Radare2 - A sophisticated open-source platform for reverse engineering.
    Binary Ninja - A tool for disassembling and decompiling binaries.
    PEiD - Packer, cryptor, and compiler detection tool.

Disassemblers & Decompilers

Crucial for malware analisys, they break the malware into a more understandable format.


    CFF Explorer - A PE editor designed to analyze and edit Portable Executable (PE) files.
    Hopper Disassembler - A Debugger, disassembler, and decompiler.
    RetDec - Open-source decompiler for machine code.

Static & Dynamic Analysis

Static -> inspecting without execution
Dynamic -> Observe behaviour has it runs


    Process Hacker - Sophisticated memory editor and process watcher.
    PEview - A portable executable (PE) file viewer for analysis.
    Dependency Walker - A tool for displaying an executable’s DLL dependencies.
    DIE (Detect It Easy) - A packer, compiler, and cryptor detection tool.

Forensics & Incident Response

Collection, analysis, and preservation of digital evidence and detection, containment, eradication, and recovery from cyberattacks


    Volatility - RAM dump analysis framework for memory forensics.
    Rekall - Framework for memory forensics in incident response.
    FTK Imager - Disc image acquisition and analysis tools for forensic use.

Network Analysis

Analyse networks, uncover patterns, optimise performance


    Wireshark - Network protocol analyzer for traffic recording and examination.
    Nmap - A vulnerability detection and network mapping tool.
    Netcat - Read and write data across network connections with this helpful tool.

File Analysis

Examine files for security threats and ensure proper file permissions


    FileInsight - A program for looking through and editing binary files.
    Hex Fiend - Hex editor that is light and quick.
    HxD - Binary file viewing and editing with a hex editor.

Scripting & Automation

Automate repetitive tasks making them more efficient and reduce human error


    Python - Mainly automation-focused on Python modules and tools.
    PowerShell Empire - Framework for PowerShell post-exploitation.

Sysinternals Suite

Collection of tools to manage troubleshoot and diagnose windows systems


    Autoruns - Shows what executables are configured to run during system boot-up.
    Process Explorer - Provides information about running processes.
    Process Monitor -Monitors and logs real-time process/thread activity.



>Commonly used tools in investigation<

Procmon (Process Monitor)

This tool records issues with our systems apps.
Its helpful to track system activity related to malware research, troubleshooting, and forensic investigations.

Procexp ( Process Explorer )

This program provide a deep dive in what each process is doing. it can tells us what user is running it and what files it is accessing.

HxD

Hex Editor -> used for investigation, data recovery, debugging, manipulation of binary data.

CFF Explorer

Generate file hashs for integrity verification authentication and validation

Wireshark

Network Traffic analisys tool. Use to hunt down dubious connections, examine protocols, and spot possible assaults or data exfiltration

PEStudio

Static analisys tool for studying executable files without running them.

FLOSS

Static analisys program - Extracts and de-obfuscates all strings from malware programs.
