>Shell<

A shell is a software that allows users to interact with a OS ( It can have a GUI but is usually a CLI)

Some activities an attacker can do with a shell

Remote system control - Execute commands on the system remotely
Privilege escalation - Attackers can explore ways to escalate privileges to have more access to the system via the shell
Data exfiltration - Once attackers can execute commands they can start to read write and copy/download files.
Persistence and Maitenance Access - Once attackers have access and enough privileges they can try to implements backdoors or create new users to have persistent access to the system.
Post-Exploitation Activities - Deploy malware, create hidden accounts, Delete information
Access other systems in the network - Once a shell is obtained an attacker going can be to hop throught the network to a different target using the shell as a pivot (Pivoting)

>Reverse Shell<

AKA connect back shell

The connection is initiate from the target machine to the attacker machine (Helps avoid detection)

How they work:

example using netcat

We setup a listener using netcat: nc -lvnp 443

Note: Always good to use a port that other services use to blend traffic and make it look legit

Once we have our listener setup we need to execute our payload via the vulnerability we exploited previously

Once the payload is executed the attacker receives the shell.

>Bind Shell<

Will bind to a port on the infected machine and wait for a connection.

This method is used when the compromised target does not allow outgoing connections. Less popular cause it stays active listening for connections so its easier to detect.

>Shell Listeners<

Rlwrap - it provides the use of editing keyboard and history. We can wrap netcat with rlwrap so we can have access to more features.
example: rlwrap nc -lvnp 443

Ncat - Improved version of netcat. has extra features like encryption (SSL)
Example of listening for reverse shell with SSL: ncat --ssl -lvnp 4444

Socat - allows to create a socket connection between 2 data sources.
Its a great tool and great for more complex connections.
It supports a lot more socket connections besides TCP and UDP

>Shell Payloads<
A shell payload is a command or a script that creates a shell to and incoming connection or sends a connection of a shell.

>Web Shell<
A script written in a language supported by the compromised web server that executes commands throught the web server itself.
Usually is a file containing the code that executes commands and handles files. It can be hidden in a application or service.


